docs(messaging): delivery track milestones fixes (#414)
logos-co/roadmap: content/messaging/roadmap/milestones/2026-rln-for-lightpush.md

---
title: RLN for LightPush
tags:
  - messaging-milestone
date: '2026-04-06T00:00:00.000Z'
github: 'https://github.com/logos-messaging/pm/issues/411'
---
**Resources Required**:
- 1 Delivery engineer
- AnonComms support

Resolve the architectural gap where LightPush service nodes share a single RLN quota with relay traffic, making LightPush non-functional under high-volume relay conditions.

> Once done, Logos Messaging fleets should be able to become fully RLN-protected; edge nodes are required to get an RLN membership and send lightpush requests with RLN-proof attached; RLNaaS is discontinued.

Reviewer: Also important to strengthen the membership management mechanism. Keep working on something like the following seems interesting: https://rln.waku.org/
Also needed a mechanism to manage membership from mobile.

Author: @Ivansete-status as discussed in the call, what you describe is already part of our roadmap: https://github.com/logos-messaging/pm/issues/353

We definitely need to simplify the usage of RLN. Perhaps it will be some kind of RLN membership API. But this is out of scope of `RLN for Lightpush` milestone, it doesn't depend on it.

> It's an open question, how edge not will get RLN membership. The initial implementation should have the same approach as Relay, later versions might introduce sponsored memberships.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's an open question, how edge nodes will get RLN memberships. The initial implementation should have the same approach as Relay, later versions might introduce sponsored memberships.
```

| RLN membership sponsorship model is not defined | Focus on no-sponsorship implementation first. |
## Deliverables

### Add support for RLN proofs in edge mode

**Owner**: Delivery Team

Enable light clients with their own RLN membership to generate proofs client-side and submit messages with proofs via lightpush. The service node verifies the proof and relays without consuming its own quota.

This decouples lightpush from service node quota entirely for clients that have their own membership, and is the long-term path to sustainable edge mode.

**Done when**: A light client with its own RLN membership can send a pre-proven message via lighpush, and the service node relays it without consuming its own nonce.

Note that this might already be possible in `logos-delivery`, in that case it needs verification.

### [Improve RLN UX by reducing contract interactions](https://github.com/waku-org/pm/issues/344)

**Owner**: Delivery Team

**Feature**: [RLN Smart Contract](/messaging/furps/core/rln_smart_contract.md)

**FURPS**:
- U3. Application does not need to do a Web3 RPC call for every tree change to generate or validate messages.

> - U4. Application can transfer tokens and register membership with a single transaction.

Reviewer: We will need Annon Coms help.
Also, we need to perform stress tests to know well which are the RLN limits, e.g., max number of members.

Author: AnonComms will help with this, but I'll keep `Delivery Team` as owner.

@Ivansete-status do we have `max number of members` defined somewhere in the smart contract?

### Enable LightPush rate limiting in Logos Testnet

**Owner**: Delivery Team

Enable Logos Testnet fleet nodes to start verifying lightpush RLN proofs, and drop lightpush requests without RLN proofs.

**Done when**: Fleet deployments (`logos.dev`, `logos.test`) are updated.

### Enable LightPush rate limiting in `waku.sandbox`

Enable `waku.sandbox` fleet nodes to start verifying lightpush RLN proofs, and drop lightpush requests without RLN proofs.

This must be done carefully. Node operators and users should be notified. No disturbance should occur for network users.

> **Done when**: Fleet deployments (`logos.dev`, `logos.test`) are updated.

Reviewer: Before considering it as done I think we need to:
1. Measure which is the maximum allowed members
2. Simplify the membership management UX

Author: I think it is okay to keep existing UX for the initial version. Yes, it is difficult to start using RLN, but at least the network will be honestly protected.

Currently membership management is scheduled for Testnet 0.3, but this will be one of the first things to do there. And if we have room earlier, we can consider doing it before.
